# Introduction to High Throughput DNA Sequence Data Analysis Using R / Bioconductor

Martin Morgan, Roswell Park Cancer Institute<br />
Tuesday March 8, 2016<br />
Austin, TX

# Abstract

Modern methods of high-throughput genomic data generate large primary
data sets that require significant data manipulation and statistical
summary before arriving at biological insight. This workshop starts by
outlining basic DNA sequence analysis work flows, from primary data
generation to biological interpretation. We use this outline, and
especially the 'RNA-seq known gene differential expression' work flow,
to identify relevant data management and statistical issues. The
workshop then steps through _R_ and _Bioconductor_ code to implement
essential stages in data management and statistical analysis. We
conclude with a brief overview of the resources available for further
study.

# Prerequisites

Participants should have an interest in and basic exposure to
biological or statistical research questions that use high-throughput
genomic data, for instance microarray or RNA-seq gene-level
differential expression analysis. Participants should be comfortable
with _R_, e.g., able to install and load new packages, use the help
system, and write scripts. Participants are required to bring a laptop
with wireless internet capabilities, and with a recent version of
Chrome, Firefox, or Safari installed.

# Target audience

Statisticians with basic understanding of _R_, and with an interest in
high-throughput DNA sequence data, especially of designed experiments.

# Brief biography

Dr. Martin Morgan leads the successful open source, open development
_Bioconductor_ project (http://bioconductor.org) for the analysis and
comprehension of high throughput genomic data. Dr. Morgan's interests
include statistical computation, integrative analysis of multiple
'omics data sets, and effective data comprehension.
